All right, well welcome
everybody back to Inspiring Hope.
Last week was so unique
in not having service.
Um, it's always those moments
where it's like, is it legal
in church not to have church?
Is it legal?
It is.
Um, I hope you guys
enjoyed your, your weekend.
Um, I know I did.
Our family got to get away for about
a week and we traveled back on Sunday
and so, um, it's always those moments
where when I get back I am super
pumped to be back and usually the first
opportunity they get, get to, to see
what I call my family, my church family.
I love it.
I just been smiling a lot today just
seeing you guys, so you may be surprised,
but I actually like y'all a little bit.
Okay.
Um, and so, you know, it's really,
really good to see ya and glad
that we get the opportunity to, to
come back and continue our series.
So we've been talking
about Shalom, Shalom.
So finding God's perfect peace in
the midst of our mental struggles.
Um, and it's been a, an interesting
series as we've walked through this.
Um, I, I think many people probably
have struggled with different things.
I'm hoping that if you have, if you
don't struggle with these things,
that maybe you're learning something.
So if one day you do or you
have friends that do that you
can point them to, to Jesus.
You can point them to how we continue to
heal and how we continue to recover and
how we continue to, to overcome some of
these things and live with these things.
And so, um, we've got two weeks left.
We've got today and then next week.
Um, and so today we get to
talk about how God heals.
Our trauma.
Um, and I would say this, that
as we begin to think about our
lives, many of us have went through
some form of a traumatic event.
Um, and, and I kind of think about
this as actually interesting,
actually all of us did.
If you think about Covid, all
of us have went through some
sort of trauma in our lives.
Um, and whenever I think about that,
it, it, it's a difficult subject.
And the reason why is
everybody's trauma is different.
Um, yet, Every one of us has experienced
it in different forms, and some of
us experience it more often at times.
We really can't relate with
a person because we're not
going through that with them.
We go through something differently.
And so as we talk about this today,
I wanna be very sensitive, uh, as
we continue to talk about how we
heal from trauma, that it's not.
I, I, uh, basically quick fix.
It's not a one time decision
to continue to work through
processing, healing and overcoming
the trauma that we've been through.
Um, and so don't, don't hear what I
say today as, man, he just says, we
need to get over it and just give it
to Jesus and it's all gonna be fine.
What I want you to hear is it's
a process, and one things you're
gonna continue to hear over and
over again is that it is a process
that needs to be done in community.
In order to heal from our trauma,
we need to do this in community,
and it takes time to do that.
And so we'll be talking more
and more about that today.
Um, and so my hope is, is through being
able to share a little bit about what I've
went through in my life, along with, um,
what Paul and the Bible has went through,
and how he processed some of the trauma
that he went through and how he was able
to find healing that maybe just maybe.
We will leave outta here on the journey
to begin to overcome our, our trauma and
the things that we have went through.
And so again, I wanna speak to
those who may be like, oh, I
haven't had any trauma in my life.
Well, praise God.
Um, there's people all around you
that have that maybe you can help.
Uh, and there may be one day that you go
through this and you need this as well.
And so the question
then is, what is trauma?
Uh, so many people think about
trauma, uh, as basically the
event injury or abuse, but.
Actually trauma is the response to that.
And so just a, a basic, um, definition
of it is trauma is a response to a deeply
disturbing and distressing event, a
deeply disturbing and distressing event.
And so it's the response to
it, it's not necessarily the
action, but how we respond to it.
And this is why I say this is
something small may trigger you
to have something traumatic.
And your response that somebody
else may not go through.
And this is why I say trauma is
so different amongst all of us.
And again, many of us think of it as just
physical, but sometimes it's emotional,
it's mental, it's spiritual as well.
And so this is why we need to
remember these things is that
are the wounds that we can't see.
They're below the surface, sometimes
hurt just as much or more than the
ones we can see, but many of us in the
trauma that we're dealing with or that
we have dealt with, we don't ever.
Heal from it.
We don't ever really
recognize it and name it.
Um, and many of you have probably
heard this first before it should be
up on the screen and on your papers,
is that Romans A 28 says this.
It says, we know that all things
work together for the good of
those who love God and who are
called according to his purpose.
I've always struggled with this
verse because that sounds so great
cuz he says he works in all things.
All things work together for the good.
But not all things seem good.
Am I right?
Anybody else like that?
Not all things seem good.
Uh, and and I would say at
times it's hard to see that.
So this could really be a verse that
seems very negative or hurtful at times.
But I hope that by the end of this
you're gonna see that God is always
redeeming that hurt in those all things.
He's always redeeming that.
And so as we try to unpack this today, I
pray that we find not only healing in our
trauma, but I pray that we find strength.
I, I think too many times we wanna
just get through what we're going
through rather than to actually
become stronger through it.
And I believe that we can
do that through God's.
Perfect peace.
So let's pray and then let's
just continue to jump in.
So, Lord Jesus, we pray today as we
jump into this and as we dive into
this, Lord, that, number one, that you
are guiding us, the Lord, that your
presence is amongst us, Lord, because,
um, if we're not ready for this Lord
today, today, This could be difficult.
Uh, but Lord, I just pray all of us,
Lord, whether we've dealt with trauma
or not, Lord, that we are here to learn
and that we're here to hear from you.
And I pray the things that we do
discuss is beneficial for each one
of us to come to know you more and
to experience your perfect peace.
So, Lord, help us continue to overcome all
the mental issues that we've dealt with,
all the things that we begin to discuss.
Lord, help us continue to overcome this.
And so, Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So as we think about trauma, um, you
have probably grown up in an era like
I have where people that go through
things many times, it's just like,
well, that doesn't seem too bad to them.
Or if you go through something
difficult, a traumatic event, most
people are just gonna say this,
that maybe this is how I grew up.
Just suck it up.
Just grab some dirt, rub it in the wound.
It'll all be all right.
Just, just.
You just need to keep moving.
And most of the times we're told that
because it's like we don't have time to
deal with the trauma, the traumatic event.
We don't have time,
there's too much going on.
Or people think that it's not a big deal.
And, and the reason why I say
that is because when we don't deal
with our trauma, when we don't
deal with what has happened to
us, We struggle to move past it.
And so this is what happens.
We don't just get over trauma,
we don't just move past it.
We need to heal from it.
And so I want to kind of set up what
is trauma and kind of explain some
different definitions of what that
is so we can all understand this.
And again, I, I, so you know, I'm not
leading all this from just my experience.
There's professionals that have,
have been able to kind of help.
Come up with these things and help
us understand and, and identify it.
So there's three types of
trauma and I'm gonna try to go
through them pretty quickly.
Um, but number one is acute trauma.
And this is usually from a one-time
traumatic event, one-time traumatic event.
So you get in a car wreck.
And that scares the heck out of you.
And that car wreck is something that
will define you, uh, and how you
wanna ever ride with anybody else that
maybe has been in a wreck with, uh,
you've survived a natural disaster.
When I lived in Oklahoma, it
was every year it seemed like we
survived a tornado from somewhere.
So for some of you, that's, that's not
a one-time thing, but maybe multiple.
Uh, for some it could
be a complicated birth.
Um, for others it could be something
as horrible as a one-time rape.
See these are acute trauma.
And this one event, this horrible one
event is again, the traumatic experience
that we get from it is, is, is horrible.
Uh, then you see chronic trauma.
So chronic trauma is a long-term response
from prolonged or repeated events, a
long-term response from prolonged or
repeated events, so not a one-time event.
So think about this, if you were bullied
all throughout school, That could have
been traumatic and really is something
that still affects you to this day.
Racism, something that you've
experienced your whole life.
It's affected you.
Maybe you're raised in the home
with, with al alcohol abuse, or
maybe it's even been sexually abuse.
All these things again, are horrible
ongoing trauma or abuse that
you've experienced in your life.
And the last one is complex trauma.
Complex trauma is really just a
response to multiple and ongoing events.
It's, it's multiple things that
you've been exposed to over time.
Um, and again, these can be emotional,
physical, spiritual, uh, as well.
And so no matter what you've gone through
again, um, that trauma changes you.
It changes how you view life,
it changes how you treat people.
And really even just the deeper
side of it, it really just changes
sometimes how you view God.
Because how could a good God
allow these things to happen?
And that is a difficult
thing to process and realize.
And so I just want us to stop for
just a minute and just think of
the heaviness of this subject.
This is a difficult subject.
Because I think it's hard to speak
to every person where they are
because everybody has dealt with
trauma in a different way and
they're in a different season in it.
And so I, it is heavy.
It is heavy, but I know this.
Why are we talking about it is because
if the church is not a safe place to
talk about how we heal from trauma,
where we go, then I don't know where
there's a place to talk about this.
And, and again, too many times with
trauma is we internally wrestle with it.
But we for some reason struggle with
communicating and asking for help
and actually recognizing that we
have been hurt, that we have had a
difficult circumstance happen to us.
So it's, again, it's important
not to compare our trauma.
Everybody's trauma is
horrible no matter what.
We're not here to compare whose is
worst, but it is important that we seek.
God for healing no
matter what trauma it is.
So I wanna start us off with, and
this is how I love to be able to
start off messages, not because I
just wanna relate with you, but I, I
think it's important for you to know.
Uh, that have, I've experienced trauma in
my life and I'm gonna try to be as brief
as I can, um, just because this story's
a lot more unpacked and some of you've
heard this story before, but as a kid,
whenever I was 12, 13, actually from the
moment I was basically born, we were in
a church and we were in a home church.
Uh, and this home church, we
were around for a long time.
Uh, basically I had all my friends there.
My family obviously was a part
of that, and there began to be
some conflict between my dad
and the leader of that church.
And, um, this went on for
some time and there began to
be a little bit of a divide.
But it so happened that the leader
of this church and my dad worked
at my grandpa's pattern shop.
They worked together side by side.
Um, and that conflict began
to just boil over until one
day while we're at this shop.
Um, my dad's there, this guy's there.
I'm there.
Now just picture this again.
This guy I'd grown up around this
whole time, this leader, um, and he
was going to get lunch and he asked me
if I wanted to go get lunch with him.
So I went and got lunch with
him, came back and I remember
I can picture it today.
I remember my dad opening the door
and seeing, oh, you guys are back.
And the next thing I know, this leader
runs at him and begins to beat him.
And we're not talking about just
punch him, we're talking about
beating him right in front of me.
Nobody else is around.
I'm 1213.
I don't know what to do.
I remember rushing to the phone,
trying to call my mom, couldn't
remember the number to call my mom.
And finally, finally, I ran
back in and I had to scream as
loud as I could to say Stop.
And at that moment, my dad is covered
in blood and my dad went through
way more than I did in this moment.
But for me, that was
traumatic because not only.
Was that horrible to see, but
then things began to continue
to unravel where obviously that
church did not exist much longer.
There was a lot of conflict between
families and I lost friendships and
later on, crazy enough that my grandpa
actually fired my dad for some other
reasons and some other things that
went on, fired my dad, but did not
fire the guy that beat up my dad.
Um, so there was family issues, uh,
and, and you just go on and on and so,
What was the traumatic trauma from it?
So again, that was a
horrible thing that happened.
But trauma was the response
to what happened for me.
So how did I respond?
Anger.
I had a lot of anger.
I remember this.
So from about age 12, 13 till about 23,
which at 23, I gave my life to Jesus.
I remember days and nights of
waking up and the only thing I
could think about this is horrible,
is wanting to kill that man.
That beat my dad up.
That's all I could think
about now, that's horrible.
But for 10 years, multiple times, angry.
So angry, I had so much hatred.
Not only for him, I had so much hatred
for the church and for Jesus because
we were in a church and there's no way
I'm gonna darken the doors of a church.
That allowed, you know,
God allowed this to happen.
So I, I didn't wanna be around Christians,
I didn't wanna be around church.
I hated that.
I dealt with a lot of also
identity issues in that moment.
There was a lot of things
going on in our family.
My sister and brother had moved outta
the house and lost a lot of my friends,
and so I went back to public school.
I was homeschooled at that time and, and
I began to seek everything else to try
to find peace and I couldn't find it.
So what did I do?
I had a lot of that for 10 years, and
that trauma affected me a lot, but I
overcame it because Jesus came to my life.
Jesus came into my life, and it took
a long time to get to that point.
But whenever I got to that
point, I wanna share this.
Whenever I gave my life
to Jesus, I found peace.
It took time.
Even giving my life to Jesus.
It wasn't an instant thing.
It was a processing to processing
to the point of I got to the point
where I could look at this man and
actually have compassion for him.
I could actually, in my heart
learn to forgive him and
understanding that forgiveness is
more for me than it was for him.
And, and this is just something for you,
maybe you need to hear this, is that when
we hold on to unforgiveness, it's really.
Like drinking poison, expecting
the other person to die.
And so for me, in that moment,
I was able to forgive him and,
and there was so much freedom.
So I'm sharing this with you
to say this, that's my story.
And that was one of the most
traumatic events in my life, and
it affected me for 10 years and
it's still a part of my story.
And God's still redeeming that
story and God's still using
that story to change lives.
And I'm so thankful that he was
present in the midst of that.
So, When we hear that right, it
may sound easy for me and how I
overcame it, but for you, I don't
know what you've went through.
I have no clue.
If someone hurt you and you find it
hard to trust someone for you, it could
be that you grew up poor and we're not
talking about like poor, like, oh, I
didn't get to go out to eat all the time.
We're talking about poor, you missed a
lot of meals, you didn't have clothes,
and now you live so fearful and so
traumatic from everything that, that
all you're so consumed by money.
It could be you that you
were abused as a kid.
I, I don't know what that's like, but
maybe you were abused as a kid and that
has affected the way in which you view
life and view people and view men, or
view women or view trusting people.
But whatever you're going through,
we can heal through Jesus.
So how do we heal?
It starts with, Giving it to God.
So we're gonna look at the Apostle
Paul today, because again, you
hear my story and how Jesus
changed my life in that situation.
But I love looking in God's word.
And we're gonna be looking at the Apostle
Paul, who interestingly enough, if
you know anything about Paul, Paul was
a faithful follower of Jesus, right?
Wrote two-thirds of the New Testament.
This is somebody that God used mightily
and even he dealt with a lot of trauma.
So when we think about this
trauma, Happens to everyone.
Whether you're a faithful follower
of Jesus or you don't believe in
Jesus, trauma still happens to us all.
And when we look at his example,
we're gonna see some great
things that I think will help us.
But I wanna just mention
a few things there.
In your notes, I've listed multiple
verses and sometimes we put some
things in your notes, multiple verses
in those notes, um, for you to go and
look at Paul's story more in detail.
But I just wanna summarize
those verses real quick.
Number one, he went from city to city
where people were plotting to kill him.
He was stoned, he was beaten.
He was shipwrecked.
He was bitten by a snake.
He was falsely in prison.
And the list goes on from the moment
of his conversion, he endured abuse.
And we're gonna learn three things
about what Paul did in order to heal
from his trauma in the midst of that.
And so the first thing that we
need to realize is that we need
to process the pain of our trauma.
Um, and we're gonna see where Paul begins
to process this out a little bit deeper.
But I want you to think about this.
When we need to process our
trauma, the first thing that we
need to do is acknowledge it.
And that sounds very logical
in order to process something.
But we need to acknowledge that
we went through something and
we are experiencing trauma.
I, I think of this, this way.
If you broke your leg and you go, eh, I'm
not gonna act like I have a broken leg.
Is your leg ever gonna heal?
It's gonna heal incorrectly,
it's gonna be painful.
If it's not set right, you're maybe
not ever gonna walk on it again.
It's always gonna be there until you do
something about it, to heal it, to to go
to the doctor and address the situation.
And so we need to understand
that if we don't heal, then we
begin to suppress the wound.
And when we suppress the wound,
we begin to try to cope with
it by using other things.
So we need to acknowledge.
That we've been abused, and that could
be, you know, that we have trauma, right?
It could be from abuse,
it could be from rape.
It could be from being abandoned or
mistreated, but we need to acknowledge it.
And the reason why we typically don't
acknowledge it, not only to ourselves, but
to other people, is because we're afraid
We're, we're afraid to be vulnerable.
We feel like we're helpless.
We think it's better to just
ignore it and not talk about it.
I would say this for me.
I was afraid to admit it
because I felt like I was weak.
I should just, I was that person that
told myself I should just suck it up.
I should just put dirt on it.
I should just move forward and
figure it out on my own and do
this on my own and just get over
it, and I never could get over it.
So what happens when we don't address
and acknowledge what we've went through
and process it, instead of seeking
connection with other people to process
it, we really prioritize protection,
protecting what we've went through.
And so we never let people in.
Again, we don't heal in isolation.
We heal best in community.
So why do you guys hear me
talk all the time about Inspire
Groups, which is our small groups?
We talk about our inspire groups because
it's a place where we can be real and,
and things that we walk through in life.
Difficult things that we walk
through in life that you can lay
it out there without judgment.
You can have people that will
pray for you and encourage you.
The Bible even talks about this,
that we can come together and we can
confess our faults and our struggles
to one another, and when we pray for
one another that the Bible says that
we will be healed when we do that.
So we need to continue to seek Jesus.
So go to two Corinthians chapter 11.
It should be up on the screen as well.
Second Corinthians chapter 11.
We're gonna read verses 23 through
28 together, and we're gonna see how
Paul began to process and acknowledge
the traumatic events he went through,
which again, He's speaking to a group
of people who have claimed some things,
and he's kind of saying, Hey, I've kind
of had it a little bit worse than you.
So here's where it's, we're
just gonna start in verse 23.
So second Corinthians chapter
11, starting in verse 23.
It says this, if I can find it here,
it says, are they servants of Christ?
He says, am I talking like a madman?
He says I'm a better one with
far more laborers and many more
imprisonments and far worse beatings
and many more near-death experiences.
He says this, he begins to describe
and acknowledge his trauma,
the things he's went through.
He says, five times I received 40 lashes.
Minus one.
I wanna stop right there.
You wanna know the reason why Paul
received only 39 slashes, which I always
love how he says it's 40 minus one.
I don't know.
But anyways, you wanna
know why he received 39?
Because if he was to happen to die at
39, it wouldn't be considered murder.
But if they hit him 40 times and he
died, then it would be considered murder.
So they did it 39 times basically to say,
we're gonna get you close to death, and
if you happen to die, it's not our fault.
This is just a, you know, typical
punishment, but five times.
He received 40 lashes, minus one, so 39
he says three times he was beaten with
rods once he was received a stoning.
Three times he was shipped, correct.
He says, I've spent a night and a day
in the open sea and on frequent journeys
I faced dangers from rivers and dangers
from robbers and dangers from my own
people, and dangers from gentiles and
dangers in the city, and dangers in
the wilderness, and dangers at sea,
and dangers among false brothers.
He says, toil and hard hardships, many
sleepless nights, hunger and thirst, often
without food cold and without clothing.
Not to mention other things.
There is the daily pressure on me
and my concerns for the church.
You know, that caught me at the end
of the verse here on verse 28, that
Paul even mentions here the pressures
on him and the concerns of the church.
You know, that really started
making me think as a pastor and
some of the traumatic things.
I feel like that as a pastor
I've went through that.
I haven't really recognized
recently how traumatic it has
been, and that was even for me.
As I'm looking at trauma, I'm thinking
of the one time event that I can always
think of, but even you maybe sitting
in this room going, you know, I haven't
went through anything traumatic.
Have you ever had a friend abandon
you and, and you just kind of moved
on and not really recognized that it
truly hurt that they would abandon you?
I mean, have you, I I don't know if you
have that, that that's happened to me.
Those are moments where I realize that
truly affects the way I trust another
friend and the way I view other people.
And so when I think about this,
Paul was even burdened and affected
over just ministry and the people.
So as we look at this, Paul had a lot
of traumatic events in his life, right?
It's hard for us maybe to compare,
but we're not here to compare.
But he mentions this and
you see this verse I believe
there on your paper as well.
He says, we were completely overwhelmed
beyond our strength so that we
even despaired of life itself.
And so even some of the trauma that
Paul went through, even he at times
wondered if he could continue to move on.
So I don't know if you've
ever hurt so deeply, you've
wondered if you can move on.
Just know Paul relates with you.
He understands what you've went through.
So what did Paul do?
He talked about it.
He acknowledged it.
He wrote about it.
He processed it.
And so I encourage you
to find a safe place.
Maybe that isn't Inspire group.
Maybe that's a close friended to say, hey.
Here's what I've struggled with, I've
wrestled with in my life, and, and it's
affected my ability to trust people or my
affected my ability to, to not be consumed
with money or to affected my ability.
That now, because I grew up with
angry, abusive parents, that now I
struggle to be angry and abusive.
The, see, that's a tough conversation that
maybe you need to have with a counselor.
Maybe you need to have somebody
that you know will be able to
help you and encourage you.
Again, we need to
remember not to ignore it.
We have to acknowledge it and
process it in order to heal,
so we move on from that, right?
The first one was is that we need
to acknowledge and process it,
and the next one is so important.
We need to prayfully press
into God with our trauma.
See, we have two options.
When we go through traumatic
events, we can either run to God.
We can run away from God.
And, and just so you know, I think at
times as a believer, when I've walked
through traumatic events in my life, I,
I feel like I've just not gone anywhere.
I feel like I've not gone backwards
and I'm not running to God.
I'm just trying to
figure it out on my own.
That's the, you know, flesh side of me
that just thinks, I just need to figure
this out on my own because I'm a man.
And men don't cry.
And men don't, you know, they,
they just, they just handle things.
They act like a wound's not a big deal.
What ends up happening, and it usually
happens, all of a sudden I break down.
And for many of us, it's because we're
internally struggling and physically
we begin to break down and mentally
we begin to break down and we need
to acknowledge it by going to God,
not just trying to handle it on our
own by prayerfully going to God.
And so we look at an example here.
You're gonna see this again,
two Corinthians 12, eight.
Paul mentions this, he says,
I pleaded with the Lord three
times that it would lead me.
So just to kind of set this up, Paul the
apostle had something else happen to him.
He didn't even list on that.
It says that he has a thorn in his side.
Many don't know what that thorn was.
Some of you may have a thorn in your side
and they're sitting right next to you.
Don't elbow them.
Okay?
Um, good job over the Rhine.
I saw that.
Um, What Paul had was something
that was very painful, something
that was tormenting him, and three
different times he went to the Lord.
And when you begin to study a
little bit deeper into that text,
these three times wasn't just
like, okay, Lord, take this away.
Take it away.
It wasn't three times in one
prayer, what many believe is
it was three seasons of prayer.
He was being tormented by this
thorn, whatever that thorn was.
He began to pray and pray and
pray for it to be removed.
And here's what God said.
God's response to Paul was this, and
you'll see this in second Corinthians
12, nine through 10, he said, but he said
to me, my grace is sufficient for you,
for my power is perfected in weakness.
Therefore, I will most gladly boast
all the more about my weaknesses so
that Christ power may reside in to me.
And so here's what Paul says.
I take pleasure in my weaknesses,
my insults, my hardships, my
persecutions, and in my difficulties.
Just add in there in my trauma
for the sake of Christ, for when
I am weak, then I am strong.
See, the Bible says that we
can cast all of our cares onto
the Lord for he cares for us.
So we prayfully seek Jesus
when healing from trauma.
Recognizing, acknowledging it, and
then casting it over to the Lord.
So God is basically saying to Paul, and
he's saying to us, in the midst of your
trauma, you may be weak, but God isn't.
He is strong.
If you're figuring out, how do I overcome
this, how do I move on, how do I heal?
Jesus is the only one that will
be able to help you do that.
You will not be able to do it on your own.
So we need to go to Jesus.
We need to go to Jesus, and we need
to remember that nothing can change
our past, but God can heal not only
our broken hearts and our broken
lives, but he can change your future.
Guys, I, I'll just tell you this, and
Brittany knows this more than anybody,
the freedom in which I received when I
began to overcome the trauma in which
I experienced as a kid changed my life.
It changed my life.
Too many of us are living with the burden
from past traumatic experiences that
we are still processing to this day, no
matter if it's been 20 years or one month.
And it is affecting how you live and how
you treat people, and how you experience
the abundant life that God has for you.
God's perfect peace and
so we need to pursue God.
We need to.
Go to him.
And so Psalm 38 or 34 18 says this, the
Lord is near the brokenhearted and he
saves those who are crushed in spirit.
And so what, what God is saying
is, is this, what that Psalm is
saying is this, that if you are
broken, if you're struggling,
God is right there next to you.
He is ready to save you.
He's ready to help you.
And so the last thing that
we see here from Paul, right?
So Paul not only acknowledged that he
began to express everything he went
through, but he began to cast his cares
on the Lord three different seasons.
In that instance, he went to the Lord, and
it's a reminder for us that we need to go
to the Lord and we need to go to the Lord.
And sometimes the Lord is gonna
say, my grace is sufficient for you.
Sometimes the Lord's gonna remove
that thorn and he's gonna change it.
The last one is, is hard to maybe for
us to take home and, and if you're
not ready for this, maybe it's a
season where you're still working
on healing, but as you begin to seek
Jesus, here's what he's going to do.
We're going to pursue
purpose in our trauma.
That goes back to that Romans
A 28 we started with, right?
God uses all things right for
the good of those who love him.
It's hard to see sometimes in these
events how God can use those for good.
This is where we're gonna begin
to see that there's a purpose that
God will take again, not that he
allowed that to happen, as though
he's like, oh, I'm glad you did that.
He's going to use
whatever happened to you.
He didn't say, I wanted
that to happen to you.
He's going to use it for something good.
So even Paul after these
traumatic events, right?
Going back to he was beaten,
he was shipwrecked, he was
stoned, he was left for dead.
Second Corinthians.
One verses two through four says this.
This is Paul speaking.
Blessed be the God and Father of
our Lord Jesus Christ, the father of
mercies and the God of all comfort.
He comforts us in our afflictions so
that we may be able to comfort those who
are in any kind of affliction through
the comfort we have received from God.
I wanna say that again, and you need to
hear this, something we need to hear.
As God comforts us in our affliction
and what we're dealing with, he is now
giving us that comfort so that we can
comfort others who have walked through
the same traumatic events that we have.
It is hard to see that.
It's so hard to see that God wants
to use that, but here's really what
what he's saying is that as you are
processing your pain, As you are coming
to God and you're healing and you're
receiving his perfect peace, you can
walk along some alongside someone else
who hasn't healed, or maybe you're in
the process of healing and you can walk
alongside someone who is in the process
of healing and they can realize they're
not the only ones that were affected.
They're not the only ones
that have gone through this.
And when it's so nice, I don't know
what, it sounds so bad, but it's
nice to know that we have company
that we're not the only ones.
It's nice to know that we have
somebody that is trying to figure
this out as well and trying to
seek Jesus for healing, right?
And it's so hard to see this
in the midst of our pain.
Um, and we just need to
remember, this is so important.
If you need help, if you need to,
to reach out to a friend, go to
Inspire group, go to a counselor.
There is, it's not weakness to seek help.
It's actually strong.
It's strength, right?
It is not a sign of weakness.
When we get help, it's a sign of strength.
And so one of the things that as
we begin to study through this and,
um, the, the church that we, uh,
basically we followed is we begin
to learn a lot of this series and be
able to bring this series to you guys.
Um, he was reaching out to a counselor
who was looking over his messages,
and he made this one statement to the
pastor that I think is so important
that we need to take as well.
This is what the counselor said.
Don't just tell your
people that they can heal.
Tell them and remind them
that they can be stronger.
That they can be stronger after healing.
And I wanna share with you James
chapter one, verses two through four.
This is what James says.
Consider it great joy, my brothers and
sisters, when you experience various
trials because you know that the testing
of your faith produces endurance and let
endurance have its full effect so that you
may be mature, complete, lacking nothing.
Here's what he's saying.
He's saying that no matter what you're
going through that, that you're not
supposed to just get through it.
You're going to come out stronger
on the other side, stronger and
trusting the Lord stronger and the
ability to be able to affect those
around you and to help them heal.
So the question then, you may be asking
this, right, have I completely healed
from the traumatic event I went through?
I, I would say yes, but there's
moments I still wrestle with it.
And, and, and walking through
this series and walking through
this week, I had to relive that.
It was, it was difficult.
You know what I've even realized
even more so is that I've, I, in this
series, like I, I'm realizing I've went
through probably some more traumatic
events that I didn't wanna recognize.
I wasn't acknowledging it.
And when I begin to acknowledge it, do you
know that acknowledging the trauma hurts?
And the reason why we don't
wanna acknowledge it is
because we don't wanna hurt.
But do you know that
ignoring it hurts worse?
You need to hear that.
Somebody needs to hear that.
Acknowledging it hurts, but it hurts
worse when we don't acknowledge
what we've went through is
difficult and that we need help.
So as we move into invitation, I
always talk about what is invitation.
We talked about some heavy stuff today.
I didn't hear a lot of laughter because
there wasn't a lot to laugh about.
This is deep.
Uh, but I, I, during invitation,
I, I would say this as a role
of a pastor and you think about,
um, What's my role each week?
It's not just to, and I was actually
talking Brittany about this.
It's not just to get information across
so that you are more knowledgeable
with life and that's great.
Communicating on Sunday mornings
is all about transformation.
Taking what we've heard and
beginning, not only to process
it, but beginning to apply it.
And so I would say this, and I've
heard this from other people before,
and I don't know who quoted this
originally, but the role of a pastor.
The role of a pastor, The comfort,
those who are hurting, right?
The comfort, those who are hurting, but
to also spur on those who are comfortable.
This is another way to say it, right?
To comfort the afflicted and
to afflict the comfortable.
Sometimes it's easy just to be
comfortable to stay with not
acknowledging our trauma and just
living with that the rest of our lives.
Maybe you need to be spurred on
to actually address it, right?
And so whether trauma is the result of
something you did or somebody else did.
Here's the thing that we need to
remember, that pursuing God for
healing is our responsibility.
Lemme just say it this way.
Pursuing God for healing is your
responsibility, and what I mean by that
is God has already went the full hundred.
He is here and present and ready
to walk with you through this.
It's up to you to say, Jesus, I need you.
That's it.
Surrender.
How does the healing process happen?
I mean, you all have been through
some major probably injuries.
It happens one day at a time,
and sometimes in the healing
process there is a lot of pain.
But on the other side of complete
healing is this freedom, this peace,
this perfect piece, this shalom, shalom.
We keep talking about that God gives us.
It's crazy that God can use these
things for good, but God uses
everything for good, for our good
and for the good of those around you.
And so, just so you know, as a pastor,
if you've went through a traumatic event,
if, if you consistently go through a
traumatic event, cuz I know you do.
I hear you.
I see you.
I'm here.
I'm praying for you.
Um, and I want to continue to help you
however I can, and I wanna do that.
And so I'm gonna pray for
us and we're gonna take some
time to just go to the Lord.
So Lord Jesus, thank you for who you are,
God, that you would even take some of
the darkest moments in our life, Lord.
And you would find a way to redeem that
story and the Lord to help us heal.
And so, Lord, I'm praying
for the person in this room.
That maybe came in not knowing much about
this message and today, Lord, maybe this
message is speaking directly to them.
Lord, I pray that you help them process
it, acknowledge it, seek you, and
then begin to use Lord that healing.
That they'll receive for
the benefit of others.
God, I'll also pray for those
in the room that may be like,
okay, what's this for me?
I haven't been through
anything traumatic, Lord.
I'm praying for that person, Lord, to take
what they've learned because all around
them there are people who've gone through
so much and they need to hear that there
is a hope and there is a help in Jesus.
So Lord, just minister to our hearts
and help us, help us continue to heal.
And as we continue to pray, you
guys, I, I want everybody just look
up here as we continue to pray.
I, I'm, I'm telling you,
this is a place of safety.
This is a place where
we can heal together.
And so I, whether you wanna participate
in this or not, that's up to you.
But if you need prayer, if you've walked
through something difficult, you just,
you don't have to admit what it is.
If you've walked through something
difficult, you're dealing with just
a struggle that you need prayer for,
we wanna pray for you as a church.
We believe, when we pray, God hears us.
And this may be the first step
for you to begin to overcome
whatever you're walking through.
So here's my challenge again.
Nobody raises their hand.
It's totally fine.
We're not gonna pray for you.
That sounds really bad.
That's not what I mean.
We're gonna pray for you even
though you're not raising your hand.
But if you're willing to have somebody
pray for you and just admit right now
that you need prayer, I don't If it's
not even trauma, if it's just something
in your life, I just want you to lift
your hand up and we'll pray for you.
We're gonna take some time to
pray for anybody that needs
prayer specifically in this room.
And that's a bold ask.
And I know that's hard, and you wanna
know why that I asked this and I
tried to do this all the time, not
because I'm trying to set the example.
But guys, I need prayer to
let me be the first person.
Thank you.
There's more people than we know
that are walking through difficult
things and it takes acknowledging,
it's hard cuz it makes us vulnerable.
It makes us feel weak.
But I'm so thankful God's word
says this to that when I am weak.
Oh, he is strong.
So, you know, in the admitting those
of us that raised our hands, and
those of you that raised your hands
and your hearts, cuz I know you did.
Do you know in the middle of that weakness
that God's presence is so close to you.
But if you'll never admit your
need for God to help you heal,
you'll stay where you are.
That's not an insult, that's
an encouragement, that's
a spurring on for you.
So here's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna take some time to pray.
For those of you that raised your hand and
those of you that didn't, but thank you.
Those of you that raised
your hand and prayed.
So let's just pray.
Those of you that are sitting in
your seats, just begin to pray
for those that raised their hand.
Begin to pray for those
who in this room needed to.
So let's just all begin to pray and
just take a minute or two to do that.
Lord Jesus this.
We don't come to a service like this,
Lord, to put on a show or a performance
or just to go through a routine, Lord.
We are here to meet you.
We're here to see how you can continue
to meet us, where we are in our broken
state, and how you can help us heal
and how you can help us grow in our
faith and how you can help us Lord
live in this world that at times is
so heavy, and Lord, I'm so thankful.
For a church that prays.
I'm so thankful for a church that Lord,
we respond and that we begin to just
be honest before you Lord, and I just
pray for those who raise their hand.
I pray for myself, Lord.
I pray for those who
struggle to raise their hand.
Lord, I know there are people
in this room that is hard to
be open and honest with others.
God, I pray that you meet
them right where they're at.
Lord, I pray that as they are
acknowledging, Lord, what they've walked
through, that you'll bring healing.
Lord, I pray that they will take that
step towards healing by saying yes to
you and asking you to walk alongside.
Lord, I pray that whatever it is, Lord,
that they're walking through, that
your presence will just be with them
and Lord that our church, through our
inspire groups, then just through our
Sunday service, Lord, just through.
Our friendships, Lord, that we'll
be able to walk alongside one
another as life is difficult.
God, we know that you are good, and
we just pray that you continue to just
show that goodness to us every day
as we continue to pray.
There's one last thing
that I want to mention.
One last thing, and I
wanna share it this way.
And I think this is the perfect time.
There's many ways to share the
love and the hope of Jesus.
Many different ways to share
the love and help of Jesus.
But there's a, an example that, um, I,
I'm reminded of, and it's called three
circles, and it's this big circle in it.
I should, you know, see the planner in me
would've had this thing up on the screen,
but I'm just gonna describe it to you.
The three circles is just this big
circle, and there's three different
points on this circle, and it
talks about God's original design.
It was for each one of us to live in
God's perfect peace with him, right?
Obviously at the beginning of
creation, that was the plan.
And at the end, in eternity,
it's gonna be God's presence
and perfect experience with him.
So that was God's original design.
But that all changed when
sin came into the world.
Some of that sins us, some of
our sin, sins of other people.
And you know that sin leads
us to brokenness, right?
So God's original design
sin leads to brokenness.
That's the next point.
And that brokenness.
This is what happens.
Brokenness can be trauma, brokenness
can be abuse, and, and it can
be pain and it can be suffering.
And typically what happens when we go
through brokenness, and this is the
part again, I, I wish I had the diagram.
You begin to see this brokenness in all
these different lines that go off and
it's ways that people are trying to cope.
We try to cope from our
brokenness by drinking.
We try to cope with our brokenness.
By just acting like a different
person around somebody else
than we are with other people.
We try to cope with our
brokenness by ignoring it and
by a number of other things.
You know what happens with that?
Right?
When we're broken, we chose
everything else but God.
But here's what helps us overcome that
brokenness, and it's the next point.
It's the gospel.
It's where we repent and we
believe that Jesus Christ, the
son of God, came to this earth.
To live a perfect life, the one
we couldn't live, to die on a
cross and to suffer in our place
so that we could be forgiven and
experience God's perfect peace again.
I mean, that's an amazing story.
So to come from the brokenness
that we're talking about today and
to, to repent and believe in Jesus
and the hope of the gospel, guess
what happens when we receive Jesus?
We begin to experience God's
original design this circle.
Where God created us to be.
And here's the thing, as as believers,
that may be you at times where you
lead to brokenness with sin, even after
you've given your life to Christ and
you're having to come back to the gospel.
But for somebody in this room, it
may be you, I don't know who it is,
may be you, that you need to give
your lives to Jesus, that you need
to repent and believe, and that if
that is you today, how do you repent?
Believe we're gonna do this.
Eyes open, not heads closed.
We're not gonna do it
with the perfect prayer.
How do we give our lives to Jesus?
By saying, Jesus, I need you
by saying, I repented my sins.
Lord, forgive me.
Come into my life and change my life.
And if that's you today and you're sitting
there and you're thinking in your life
right now, I wanna give my life to Jesus.
I want to repent, believe in Jesus,
and I wanna give my life to you.
In that moment of belief,
God has saved you.
See, it's that simple.
It's not about the perfect
prayer or the perfect life.
It's really about.
The perfect Jesus and our
willingness to say, yes, I surrender.
So if that's you today and you prayed
that you believe that you've given
your life to Jesus, don't keep it
to yourself at the end of service.
I would love for you to come
and talk to me and say, Hey,
I've given my life to Jesus.
What's next?
Those of you that maybe have felt like
you've given your life to Jesus and you've
moved into sin and brokenness and you're
trying to figure out how to recover,
it's recovering through the gospel.
And that's the answer for you.
We still, as believers repent
when we've fallen away from the
Lord and we begin to recover and
experience God's perfect peace again.
So here's what's gonna happen.
I'm gonna pray for us one
more time and then we're gonna
stand and we're gonna worship.
And I'm gonna stay over here on the side.
Brittany's gonna be down here.
Ladies, if you need her, if you
need prayer, please come find us.
We wanna pray with you.
We want to encourage you through this.
So, Lord Jesus, thank you for who you are.
Thank you for your word.
Thank you for your example through Paul.
Lord, thank you for your
example through Jesus.
I mean, just all that he went through.
Lord, thank you for that
because you have helped us.
And Lord, I just pray that you
continue to help us find healing
even in the midst of our brokenness.
We just pray this into heaven again.
Amen.
Staying with us, let's worship.